

###Exercise 3

**1**

In TCP, packets are only sent upon acknowledgement of the the previous packets. If the window size is smaller than that of BDP, this implies that the link is not being fully utilised since the amount of data being sent is smaller than the amount of data the link can contain.

**2**
Yes, BDP is achieved when the sender transmits continuously at the maximum speed allowed by the link.

Assuming that the senders transmits continously at the maximum speed, the amount of data the link can receive would be equals to the product of that speed and the RTT of the system, which is equivalent to the BDP. As such, this implies that BDP is the upper limit of the window size as any window size greater than the BDP would likely result in dropped packets.

**3**

No. TCP halves the window size when a drop occurs. As such, the window size would increase linearly from 0 until it hits $W = min(MAX, BDP) + 1$. Since W is now greater than its upper bound, data would be dropped and the window would be halved. After that, the window would increase linearly again until it reaches the upper bound and the cycle repeats.

**4**

BDP = 2ms * 10 Mbps = 0.02Mb = 20000bytes

TCP is thus constrained by BDP since BDP is smaller than MAX.

The maximum rate achievable is 13 packets sent per RTT.

Since window size increases linearly it would take 12 RTTs for the maximum rate to be achieved, that would be 48ms

**5**

BDP = 20ms * 10 Gbps = 0.2Gb

TCP is thus constrained by MAX since MAX is smaller than BDP.

The maximum rate achievable is 44 packets sent per RTT.

Since window size increases linearly it would take 43 RTTs for the maximum rate to be achieved, that would be 860ms.

**6**

BDP = 20ms * 10 Gbps = 0.2Gb

Assuming that TCP is only constrained by BDP.

The maximum rate achievable is 136,986 packets sent per RTT.

Since window size increases linearly it would take 136,985 RTTs for the maximum rate to be achieved, that would be 2,739,700ms. 

Even with no hard window size limit, it will still take a very long time for the system to reach maximum time.

**7**

Assuming we double the window size every RTT, 

It would take 17 RTTs for the maximum rate to be reached, since $2^18 = 262,144$ > $136,986$, while $2^17 = 131,072$

Time taken = 17*20ms = 340ms

**8**

Number of packets in 20Mbytes = 13,698 packets

Original Scenario

No of packets sent at 0 RTT: 1 packet
No of packets sent at 1 RTT: 2 packet
No of packets sent at 2 RTT: 3 packet

The file transfer would be complete on the 165th RTT = 3300ms

Second Scenario

Assuming that the file transfer occurs at maximum rate

The file transfer would be complete on the 1st RTT = 20ms

> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).